# Purpose
Finds core genome sweep regions by identifying low diversity, monophyletic (within a population) regions in a whole-genome alignment.

# Setup

Requires a `*.cluster.tab.txt` file generated by PopCOGenT and the associated `.fasta` genome files. Also requires specifying a `focus_population`, i.e., one of the populations in the `Cluster_ID` column of the `*.cluster.tab.txt` file. We recommend that a the file be changed to only include one `Main_cluster` set of populations.

# Output
`align/*.core.fasta`: The concatenated core genome alignment of all genomes
`*.core_sweeps.csv`: The positions (in the coordinates of the whole genome alignment) of core genome sweeps.
* `Start`: Start position indexed at 0.
* `End`: End position indexed at 0.
* `Start tree`: Tree identifier that indicates the 100 SNP window where the region starts.
* `End tree`: Tree identifier that indicates the 100 SNP window where the region ends.
* `pop_pi`: Within-population nucleotide diversity in the sweep region
* `Length`: Length of sweep region
* `Midpoint`: Midpoint of sweep region in the coordinates of the multiple genome alignment.
* `ci_low` and `ci_high`: 95% confidence interval for nucleotide diversity given average genome-wide nucleotide diversity within the population.

# Usage

Set all relevant parameters in `phybreak_parameters.txt`. Load PopCOGenT environment with `source activate PopCOGenT`. Run scripts in sequence from 1-7 (i.e., `python {script_name}`). For each population for which you wish to find sweeps, change the `focus_population` parameter and re-run scripts 3-7.
